In this video we're going to start the process of giving giving the player a bow and arrow and having
him wield it in his left hand because our animation plays from the left hand.
So let's jump in and make ourselves a left handed.
Let's start by bringing in an asset pack.
I've given you some weapons against this lecture game to have TV weapons just download that and unzip
it and then drag in the asset pack into assets that will give us our usual dialogue and if I have restructured
everything nicely which I tried to do just a moment ago yet we'll have our game def TV assets.
For now we're focusing on the simple bow and we need to have the bow so that we can start our journey
of making projectiles which is going to be awesome.
Now let's have a look at the animations and I'll show you why we need to have left handed left handed
animations in our game.
So where are we the animations by explosive.
And then we have our two handed bow and then drill down into that find the one that looks like the animation.
If you don't see the preview it might be hidden.
I'm going to change the avatar to the unity model just Central a little bit here and then when I click
on play it slow down.
By the way you can see these holding it in his left hand and shooting with his right hand which is normal
for right handed to do if you're shooting a bone arrow.
So let's give ourselves some functionality.
We had to do that.
I'm going to jump over into my scripts into the fighter script.
Let's see combat.
And then fighter and I think weapon as well will be the two of you using yet again.
So now find a script where we've got our hand transform.
Let's give ourselves a concept of two different hand transforms here a left and a right where all the
places we're using hand transforming.
Here you can see we've just got it in here where weare equipping the weapon.
OK.
So it's just in the one spot we're using it.
So I'm going to rename this EF 2 and call this right hand transform okay.
So that will have changed my other sitting down below.
And I will you know I'll copy this and we'll make ourselves a left hand transform.
So very clear we can say where is the right and where is the left left hand transform.
Now let's scroll down where we do have our right hand France from down here and see what's going on.
So over and our weapon class we're going to want to spawn and we'll have to pass in the right and the
left.
So let's just give that functionality here and then we'll go over into the spawn method and and create
the place for us to put our arguments.
But for now we'll pass in the right hand transform come a left hand transform and we'll get all sorts
of errors here most probably Yep save that up jump over into our weapon script where we have spawn we're
looking for the hand transform all changes to right hand transform right hand transform come on trance
form and then out lift and transform.
There we go.
Actually that's getting a little bit massive slice to say right hand and left hand in here because we've
already defined it as a transform.
So I think we'll know what we mean when we say right hand and left hand with a weapon as well let's
give ourselves the ability to say whether the weapon is a right hand or left hand.
How do you think we would do this.
What sort of variable would we need to define whether it's right hand or left hand.
We're gonna need a ball.
So we will serialize field.
This will be out of type ball and we'll call this we'll say right handed because I think mostly to be
defaulted to right hand to say is right handed usually with a ball we try to say is so is it this and
then we can have a yay or nay and we'll define this as true or initialize this is true.
Now we've got our red squiggly line in here.
Can you figure out why that is.
We were looking for just one hand transform.
Now we're looking for two.
We've got this notion of Is it right.
Yes or no.
True or false.
How do you think we can change our instantiate to use the right hand if we should be using it or the
left hand if we should be using it.
I'm going to start off by defining a variable of type transform that I call hand trance form and then
I'll have a little if statement in here if is right handed then what do we want to do.
I scrunch up my syntax here not putting the curly braces although I know it's often good habit to do
that in case we have a second line then hand transform transform equals right hand that we've passed
in now else we will have hand transform equals what left hand you guessed it and there's even tighter
ways we could write this but for now I think that's really clear we can see exactly what's going on
some hand transform if we have our right handed bullies true then use the right hand.
Otherwise use the left hand right.
I think that's pretty clear.
Save that on.
Let's jump back over into unity now and just have a look at our fighter so jumping to core on player
so the right hand and we have a left hand and what we've probably broken our enemies as well so let's
just go and find the right hand on the player so I'm going to jump inside the play a prefab and scroll
down open up the right hand and while I'm here I'm going to open up the left hand left hand's connected
to the transform.
OK.
There we go.
The right hand the left side is back up to play I find the fight to drag on in left hand the left hand
transform and obviously we put the right hand in the right hand transform Okay jump back out of player
I'm also gonna go find my enemy let's form one of our enemies where are you enemies there's an enemy
in there somebody the enemy prefab doing the same thing here.
Finding the right hand cool and dragging over into the right hand transform and then find the left hand
where you left hand and drag the left hand into the left hand transform.
Okay now so do a little bit of a test to see this has worked I'm going to find one of my weapons here
I'll find the.
But a bit of where are we down here weapons sword the sword on our scriptural object I'm going to turn
off is right handed and then our sources on the ground as a pick up so let's see what happens when we
run over and pick up this sword that and it's in the left hand and it's all arranged in a bit of a wonky
way so the way we've structured our code is saying each weapon is only going to be right hand or left
hand we're not going to say some characters are right handed and some are left handed it's gonna be
based upon the weapon.
So really this left handed functionality is for the bow and arrow and we're not going to have different
setup for right and left handed swords at this point in time I'm going to click right handed back on
excellent.
So now we need to make ourselves a bow so we can put it in the left hand and have the player run around
look look sensible and this is going to be your challenge to create a bow we've created weapons a couple
of times now so create the bow game object create the bow script the ball object create the bow animator
override and get the position incorrect for the left hand with the bow so there's you challenged take
that on see you back here in the moment okay.
Weapons right click Create folder.
Call this a bow and within our bow and a right click.
Create a weapons make new weapon.
This will be a bow script bow object within here what's the animator override that will be something
we haven't created gets right click Create and a meta override controller.
This will be called bow override.
I keep forgetting what I call this what I call this in sword.
Sword override controller Okay.
Bow I'm going to call it Bow animator over ride because animator is the keyword here that's gonna have
me remember what's going on I'm also going to change my sword to sword.
Animator override.
There we go.
So a bit of consistency back to Bo Bo animator over idea.
That feels good.
When I click on that what's the animated controller.
Well it's gonna be our character.
And then in terms of the bottom animation here the unarmed attack instead of that's gonna be the two
headed bow attack.
Delightful.
There we go.
So now we have our bow.
We can successfully select our bow animator override the prefab.
We haven't made our prefab yet.
We'll get to that in a moment.
Demi John I will make it 10 will play around with this a lot more later on and range that's an important
one make it five for now.
So we've got it further and we switch off our right handed.
Okay.
Now we need to make ourselves a bow game object couple of ways we can do this how shall I do it this
time round you know I will do it similar to the way I did it last time I will go and find the characters
left hand boop boop left hand just there and I'll make a game object so right click Create empty I'll
call this Bo go and then the bow I will drag down into my weapons my bow weapons double click on that
to open up the prefab looking good so far and then find my simple bow prefab drag the simple bow underneath
the bow.
Pay special attention to the transform looks like it's way off in Never Never Land reset that you see
this is generally in the player's hand we need to make it bigger make it a little bit fatter on the
z axis just so we can see it more easily now we go blink looks pretty good click on play so that we
can mess around with the positioning OK it looks not too bad just rotate him this way rotate it that
way rotate it this way I think this is gonna be okay story in bouncing around he's got Antony's pants
as we would say in Australia maybe we'll say that every way is at a saying he's got a saying where you're
from aren't in your pants means you kind of bouncing around on the spot that looks fine good enough
for now and we can finesse it later on I can let you finish it to your heart's content that looks like
how one would hold it.
Okay so as we did before click on the simple bow and then find the transform right click copy component
click out of play mode come back into our bow prefab simple bow inside our bow and then right click
Place component values and that should be pretty good.
Now when we come back into the game we'll go up to the character so play our sorry player find the default
weapon changed the default weapon to the bow Oh and sorry he's also got that boy that I haven't deleted
so we delete the bow that he has in his hand and then over onto our scriptural object to make sure that
we tell him the equip prefab he's going to be the bow bow you know it shouldn't be called Beaujolais
it should be cold equipped bow sorry to everyone who's been yelling at the screen saying We coded equip
sword Rick so let's call it a cooked bow.
Excellent.
So now in our of object we can change this to e quips Oh excellent check on our player that we have
the bow is a default weapon yes I've switched that on now when we run around Piper we have a bow.
Excellent.
And make my screen a bit bigger here.
We'll see what happens when we get in a spot we had to shoot the guys.
What animation.
Yeah it plays that animation it looks a little bit wacky we do need to adjust the bow a little bit but
for now it's pretty good.
And to change the script the bow object on the bow.
So the weapon range is 10 just to see how that goes to make sure our weapon range is actually working
as intended.
Click on it dude.
Yeah.
There we go.
But Ang bloop okay.
A little bit of gangster sideways bow action happening there.
Okay.
That is it for this lecture.
We'll make ourselves a bow pick up in upcoming video and also will resolve this whole shoot has no receiver
if you see that don't worry about that.
That is something that we will take care of.
Not coming videos right stuff and see you again soon.